when you have a stock market that is
rising you need to understand why that
is are the fundamentals good is the
economy doing well are these gains
Justified once you decide that based on
actual statistics and not on the
mainstream Media or government you can
then take the next step investigate what
exactly is going on at a deeper level
you came here for the truth so let me
unveil that for you today we are going
to look at the US Stock Market and what
has been keeping it from crashing let's
begin with the Willshire 5,000 total
Market full cap index and what we see
with this is a broad analysis of the US
Stock Market we're not looking at just a
few stocks we can see the whole picture
and it is very clear that it has been
increasing year after year with a few
bumps along the way that's all I want to
show you with that now looking at the
S&P versus the Dow you will notice that
in the past couple months there has been
a Chasm which is formed in between the
two now what exactly is going on well
the Dow Jones has very few stocks
compared to the S&P 500 and you'll
notice that it has been just a few
stocks that have been rising and Rising
very well and not the whole Market
that's what I'll suggest to you this has
become apparent very recently but of
course it has been going on for quite
some
time and that takes me back to the
financial crisis or just before the
financial crisis before it hit it was
the tech sector which was increasing so
as the different sectors were falling
off the grid you know nobody wanted to
touch housing nobody wanted to get into
construction building materials they
wanted to stay away from the financials
as everything started failing and it was
Tech that was carrying the
torch now this is just the Apple stock
in
particular but essentially what I'm
trying to show you is that the market
began to
narrow so as these different sectors
started falling off you had had
investors looking for places to put
their money so that caused a runup in
different things in this case
Tech and it wasn't the tech sector as a
whole it was few select stocks as
usually the way it works the big ones
tend to get
bigger so this narrowing is a big
problem because I see that happening
today let's get more into that right
here out of market watch major US Stock
Market indexes are trading near record
levels but does that statistic simply
mask an ominous picture that's being
painted behind the scenes Market breadth
a measure of how many stocks are
rising versus the number that are
dropping that has turned exceedingly
negative this is what I've been talking
about I never use this term Market
breath but this is what I've been
talking
about and despite this the market may
continue to rise as long as these stocks
continue to go higher and higher and
higher then surely the market could rise
but this is a trend that becomes very
dangerous all right as the indexes
continue to produce a series of higher
highs subsurface conditions are painting
an entirely different
picture that's something that I totally
agree with he noted that year to date
advance in equities the S&P 500 is up
10% in
2017 has been driven by outsize games in
some of the biggest names that's right
because they've increased dramatically
you notice that that's what's really
driving the market most notably the
so-called Fang stocks which refers to a
quintet of technology and internet names
have by themselves contributed to more
than
28% of The Benchmark index gain so
onethird essentially
nearly of the gains are coming from the
Fang
stocks that's huge add in a few more
here and there and all of a sudden you
can see where the gains are coming from
it isn't the market as a whole that is
doing well yes you can look at the stock
market index and see that it has risen
but break it down stock by stock you
start to paint a different picture this
is what concerns me it's the market
breath yes the market is going higher
and maybe maybe you have been investing
in the stocks that have risen but what
happens when the Domino's
fall you can't stop
it this year is is talking about um
something similar it's usually not a
good sign for there to be a narrowing of
the market in a bull
market and this
here you know it does talk about Hong
Kong it's talking about the market there
but it also gets into the US as well and
essentially we have a problem
globally because of the way that things
are done you have central banks that
print up money buying shares they don't
buy the whole Market they buy select
stocks sure they might buy a hundred
different stocks but they're primarily
focusing on a handful and that really
gives an unfair advantage to certain
stocks it very often means that
eventually people are going to run out
of things to buy it's very interesting
to see to see it being spoken that way
let's look at
these 2017 payout analysis the 10
largest bank holding
companies and what I'd like to note from
this is the approved payout ratio share
repurchases the the companies here like
JP Morgan and uh let's see City group
and Goldman and everybody else all the
big boys they have been purchasing
repurchasing their own shares buying
shares of their own
company at an extreme level it's a rate
that they can't necessarily keep up with
and this has allowed the stocks to
continue to rise all of these
programs the share
repurchases the fact that the market has
been rising not as a whole but on a
select few basis and then you have
central banks printing up to currency
all of them sort of interrelated anyway
but this has been one very major reason
why companies sitting on cash what do
they do they repurchase their own shares
they don't necessarily get into further
development they're worried about the
future perhaps perhaps they want their
shares to rise try to collect more
investors in there this is part of the
program and last but not least the
12-day S&P closing range on a percentage
basis according to this chart the
quietest Market in US history I'll leave
that with you that's all for this video
if you found it informative please give
me a thumbs up
remember that when you give me a thumbs
up it pushes these videos higher up into
the YouTube search ranking so if you
want to see the money GPS getting higher
up there please give me a thumbs up if
you don't like the video then share your
opinion and give me a thumbs
down and last but not least if you found
the video informative I know you will
find my books the money GPS and my new
release global economic collapse even
more informative you can flip through
the books at Amazon there's links in the
description below the first book book is
about the four asset classes and how to
profit from it and the new book is about
how to reduce your expenses becoming
self-sufficient solar panels and other
things so take a look links are in the
description take
care